##The constant tinkerer
##Narendra Modi is a fine administrator, but not much of a reformer.
##Economist Jun 24th 2017

It will replace such a tangle of national and local levies and duties
levy:征兵，税收
lever: 杠杆
level: 水平，标准，水平面

by replacing domestic tariffs, the new tax should rid India of check-posts at internal borders, where lorries carrying goods typically languish for hours
rid of: 除去，摆脱

less red tap
更少的繁文缛节

Hopes that liberalising reforms would breathe new life into India's economy may have permeated the air since Modi swept to power as prime minister in May 2014.
sweep to: 向...延伸

The complicated version will probably yield less than half that and only after a painful transition

When Mr Modi was elected many business leaders winced at the sectarian and polarising bent of his BJP.
wince at: 对……感到退缩; 对……呲牙咧嘴; 对……皱眉蹙额

minimum government, maximum governance

Three years on, those hopes are fading

They thought he was the leader to rekindle the short-lived enthusiasm for liberalisation of 1991, when India faced bankruptcy.

They hoped that the state apparatus would be aimed away from trying to do everything(often badly) and towards providing basic services

Mr Modi has shown that he is an astute administrator of the economic machinery he inherited.
astute: 机敏的；狡猾的，诡计多端的

Corruption seems to have abated, at least at the highest levels of government.
abate: vt. 减轻；减少；废除;vi. 减轻；失效

But he has demonstrated little appetite for the reforms which would bring sustained growth of the sort that could transform the lives of India's 1.3 bn citizens.

The few Mr Modi has carried out must be weighed against those he has botched, the areas that have gone without reform, and the sticking plasters that cover up the effects of bad policy rather than deal with their causes.
botch: vt. 糟蹋；拙笨地修补；拙劣地拼凑; vi. 拙笨地修补；弄坏某事物; n. 难看的补缀；笨拙的修补；笨拙的工作
sticking plaster: 橡皮膏； 狗皮膏药

Mr Modi does deserve credit for bringing macroeconomic stability.

Perennial scourges such as double-digit inflation and ballooning current-account deficits have been absent.
perennial: adj. 多年生的；常年的；四季不断的；常在的；反复的;  n. 多年生植物
scourge: vt. 鞭打；蹂躏；严斥；痛斥; n. 鞭；灾祸；鞭子；苦难的根源

India has until recently grown faster than all other big emerging economies, though plenty question the veracity of its GDP figures.
veracity:  n. 诚实；精确性；老实；说真实话

The sporadic liberalisation of investment rules has helped to attract record amounts of foreign cash, albeit from an abysmally low level.
albeit: conj. 虽然；即使
abysmally: adv. 极度地；深不可测地

This is down to a mix of good fortune and good sense.
这些功绩（指前面莫迪所achieved）归因于良好的判断力和较好的运气。
good sense： n. 判断力强，理智；解决实际问题的智慧

The luck is oil. India is a huge importer and prices have tumbled from well over $100 a barrel in May 2014 to less than half of that now.
tumble： vi. 摔倒；倒塌；滚动；打滚；仓惶地行动； vt. 使摔倒；使滚翻；弄乱； n. 跌倒；翻筋斗；跌跤

Analysts estimate that this alone has boosted GDP by 1-2%.

Mr.Modi also benefited from the tenure of Raghuram Rajan, a respected central-bank governor appointed by the previous prime minister, whose inflation-targeting regime has helped keep prices in check.
regime：n. 政权，政体；社会制度；管理体制

Mr.Modi should also receive credit for sensibly using the oil windfall to pare fuel subsidies and keep the budget deficit mostly in check.
pare： vt. 消减；削皮；剪；修掉（边等）

Growth of 7% or so is nothing to scoff at. But Mr.Modi's ministers speak of an economy expanding by 8-10% a year, if not more——the sort of rates necessary to absorb the 1 m Indians who enter the labour market every month.
scoff： n. 嘲笑；愚弄；笑柄； vt. 嘲笑；嘲弄；贪婪地吃； vi. 嘲笑；嘲弄；狼吞虎咽
scoff at： 嘲笑；藐视

Achieving thie would require deep and broad reforms

A couple of initiatives show some promise.

As a result, even basic legal procedures, such as a bank seizing the assets of a company that has defaulted on its loans, have proven all but impossible to apply.

Many lenders are waiting to see how the new law works in practice before hailing it as a success.
hail as: 称赞…为…

Mr.Modi has also championed a nationwide biometric scheme known as Aadhaar, which has made many Indians visible to the state for the first time.
champion: n. 冠军；拥护者；战士;  vt. 支持；拥护; adj. 优胜的；第一流的
biometric: adj. 生物计量的; n. 计量生物学

Linking digital identities to mobile phones and bank accounts has made it possible to get subsidies straight to the needy, cutting out venal intermediaries, who in the past pilfered up to three-quarters of the money in the system.
venal: adj. 贪污的；用金钱买得的；贿赂的；贪赃枉法的
intermediary: adj. 中间的；媒介的；中途的; n. 中间人；仲裁者；调解者；媒介物; 
pilfer: vi. 偷窃；小偷小摸; vt. 窃；偷窃；小偷小摸
##注意抄袭是 plagiarize, plagiarism

The gains made from Aadhaar could end up being sizeable.

Add in the GST, along with its many drawbacks, and in terms of big reforms since Mr.Modi took office, that has been it. 

The problem is not that the prime minister lacks boldness.

The most eye-catching economic initiative of the past three years, the surprise "demonetisation" of large-value banknotes in November, which at a stroke withdrew 86% of all currency in circulation, was certainly brave.
eye-catching: adj. 引人注目的；耀眼的；显著的
at a stroke: 一下子

But that did not make it sound policy.

A lack of planning and unclear objectives mean the exercise has damaged the economy; its potential benefits remain hard to judge.

Despite an ensuing cash vacuum that caused distress, particularly in rural areas, it seems to have paid off politically.
ensuing: adj. 接着发生的

The BJP thumped opponents in local elections in February in Uttar Pradesh, India's most populous state.

Poor Indians queued for days on end to exchange old banknotes but were apparently consoled by claims that the rich were suffering far more.

Too often, he ducks essential reforms.

When courting voters he talked tantalisingly about relinquishing the commanding heights of the economy to the private sector.

But the much-discussed privatisation of state owned firms has yet to take place.

State-owned banks account for 70% of all loans but are in dire straits after having extended credit to large industrial groups which went on to finance projects that failed to pay off.

The upshot is that lending to industry, which once grew at a cracking rate of 30% a year, is now shrinking for the first time in two decades.

Infrastructure projects are stalled for lack of cash and corporate India is in the doldrums.

A comprehensive solution would be to let the public shareholding of banks fall below 50%, so they can be run as private companies.

Instead, the quasi-bureaucrats running them are reluctant to restructure loans that are heading for default, lest they be accused of using public funds to aid tycoons.

More broadly, the state has remained front and center in the economy, a position it shows no intention of giving up.

If a business needs land, it must woo a state government which controls some, lest legal challenges on private-land purchases keep it tangled up in court for decades.

State chief ministers allocate land in much the same way the "licence raj" of old doled out production quotas.

Such opacity and discretion in areas of great importance to the private sector is a recipe for politicians to "pick winners" -- or demand bribes.

On the labour market, plans are afoot to consolidate over 40 central laws into four codes but not to repeal rules that have made companies reluctant to expand.
only a few states have picked up the baton that the centre has dropped

Capital is still viewed with a measure of suspicion and regulated accordingly.

Gone are the days when ministers could press bankers into lending to their industrial chums.

But the heavy hand of the state lives on in the obligation of banks to make at least 40% of all oans to "priority sectors" such as farms and small businesses.

Such resolve as Mr Modi has shown has proved the exception rather than rule.

To the surprise of his supporters and critics alike, Mr Modi's searing rhetoric has been translated into incrementalism.

Where Mr Modi has acted it is often to tackle the symptoms of bigger problems rather than the problems themselves.

His economic credibility was built during his 12 year stint as chief minister in Gujarat.

His pet projects yielded tangible returns: electricity provision was improved, new roads laid, foreign investors glad-handed and bureaucrats kept honest.

As prime minister, Mr Modi has kept the focus on smaller projects at the expense of broad reforms.

The government has proved adept at dealing with the consequences of bad policy rather than recasting policy itself.

Power is a telling example.

One government scheme put forward by Mr Modi bailed out state-owned electricity-distribution firms at vast expense, because their weak financial position was hampering efforts to electricity rural India.

The electricity firms remain fundamentally unprofitable, however, because authorities refuse to end the practice of giving farmers free power or to crack down on widespread theft by consumers(whose votes politicians crave)

Railways are receiving more investment, but fares remain absurdly cheap for political reasons. This means freight prices are pushed up, which then nudges companies to use roads instead.

As a result, logistics costs in India are three or four times international norms(and often bigger than wage bills), hurting exports.

The prime minister's approach is not sweeping reform but the endless unveiling of samll-bore government schemes.

By one count there have been nearly 100 in the first half of his five-year term. These are hard to miss. Each is accompanied by a public-relations blitz and billboard adverts inevitably featuring Mr Modi.

they are often aimed at providing a quick fix to a symptom of economic malaise, rather than tackling a thorny underlying cause.

This signalling is no doubt useful, but little has been done to tackle the shortcomings that discourage foreigners from building factories in India in the first place.

India places a lowly 130th out of 189 in the world bank's ease-of-doing-business ranking.

One of the aims of demonetisation was to bring more of India into the open. If it has achieved that, it is only by clobbering the informal sector rather than helping the formal one.

Firms prefer to remain small because scale makes them vulnerable to corrupt officials squeezing them for bribes(or liable to filling out yet more tax returns).

That is nore surprising, as India still throws up the kind of regulatory surprises businesses loathe.

The threat of retroactive tax rulings that claw back foreign companies' gains, a frequent occurrence under previous regimes, is not entirely gone.

Companies deemed to earn excessive profits are hounded: makers of stents, pharmaceuticals and seeds have been forced to cut prices recently.

Mr.Modi's allies are adamant that their many schemes add up to a substantial change of direction for the country.

A plan to improve the skills of 500m Indians by 2022 has been hastily dropped.

"This government moves from decision to decision, without checking performance or compliance." says a retired bureaucrat.

Arun Jaitley, India's finance minister, begs to differ. "No government in India has reformed as much as this one." he says. Allowances must be made for the limited resources of the state and India's vast population, argues Mr Jaitley. But what of reforms to land, labour,tax and so on? "The Economist does not need to win votes. The BJP does".

The answer will cheer those who think that Mr Modi is a reformer at heart and that he is simply biding his time until he secures a second term in May 2019.

With even senior ministers relegated to the edges of a policymaking machine run by a tight group around him, few people know what Mr Modi has in mind.

But most conclude that hes core beliefs are already in evidence. And with the economy ticking along nicely thanks to the oil dividend, overhauling it has not required, or received, much attention.

That may have to change. GDP growth unexpectedly faltered in the latest quarter. The sag seems to have begun before demonetisation but has surely been aggravated by it. Statistics showing the creation of ever fewer jobs in the formal sector have added to a recent sense of economic malaise.

The response so far has not been a new resolve to reform India permanently but a swerve to economic populism.

Rules issued in May to protect cows(which are considered sacred bu Hindus and championed by the BJP's Hindu-nationalist backers) have put in jeopardy a large and growing buffalo meat export industry, as well as dairy and leather producers.

State governments are caving in to demands for farmers' loans to be forgiven, a policy that will bring short-term relief but make it harder for farmers to borrow in future.

It could also add two percentage points to the fiscal deficit, single-handedly nullifying the hard-won consolidation of recent years.

Even Mr Modi's backers fear more erratic decision-making as the government aims to prove it is "doing something".That would be an expensive way to conceal an absence of reform.

Time is running out to enact genuine change. If he continues in this vein, Mr Modi will leave India a little better off but otherwise not much different from how he found it.

##Nuclear energy
##Atomic power stations out at sea may be better than inland ones
##Economist Aug 12th 2017

Floating reactors are on their way. Submarine ones may follow

After the events of March 11th 2011, when an earthquake and tsunami led to a meltdown of three nuclear reactors at the Fukushima Dai-ichi power plant in Japan, you might be forgiven for concluding that atomic power and seawater don't mix

Many engineers, though, do not agree. They would like to see more seawater involved, not less. In fact, they have plans to site nuclear power plants in the ocean rather than on land——either floating on the surface or moored beneath it.

Land-bas ed power stations are bespoke structures, built by the techniques of civil engineering, in which each is slightly different and teams of specialists come and go according to the phase of the project.

Marine stations, by contrast, could be mass-produced in factories using, if not the techniques of the assembly line, then at least those of the shipyard, with crews constantly employed.

when all is done and dusted, electricity from a marine station would cost at least a third less than that from a terrestrial equivalent.

A reactor anchored on the seabed would never lack emergency cooling, the problem that cause the Fukushima meltdown. Nor would it need to be protected against the risk of terrorists flying an aircraft into it. It would be tsunami-proof, too.

Though tsunamis become great and destructive waves when they arrive in shallow water, in the open ocean they are mere ripples.

Indeed, were it deep enough(100 meters or so), such a submarine reactor would not even be affected by passing storms.

























